---
title: Intro
date: 2023.02.06
slug: 0-1
category: 0. Intro
---

## Course Description


## Course Time
Lectures: Monday and Wednesday 2:30 – 3:45 pm , Room: Bruner 228

## Course Schedule
**Topics covered in the course:**
Introduction:
1. What, Why, and How?
2. Python
Part 1: Supervised Learning
1. Basic Algorithms: Linear regression, logistic regression, support vector machine (SVM), Neural Networks (NNs)
2. Basic practice: datasets, underfitting and overfitting, regularization, hyper-parameter optimization, performance assessment
Part 2: Unsupervised Learning
1. Clustering
2. Dimensionality reduction
3. Density estimation

## Evaluation Method
Grading:
Assignments: 15%
Four Quizzes: 15%
Course Project: 20%
Exam-1: 25% Tentative Date: Wednesday March 8th, 2023
Exam-2: 25% Date: Monday May 1st, 2023, 1:00 – 3:00 pm

Remarks:
- Exam-2 covers the materials after Exam-1. In addition, chapter (review) quizzes are given where students are asked to solve exercises and answer questions from the whole chapter.
- Exams and Quizzes will be open book. Only lecture slides are allowed. The use of the Internet or other resources will result in a zero-exam grade.

## Textbooks
References:
The course does not have a text book. However, the following references are useful as readings materials:
1. The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book, Andriy Burkov, Jan. 2019
2. Introduction to Data Mining, Tan, Steinbach, Karpatne, and Kumar, 2nd Edition, Pearson Education, 2019
3. Introduction to Machine Learning with Python: A Guide for Data Scientists, A. Muller and S. Guido, O’Reilly, 2016
4. Deep Learning, Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville, MIT Press, 2016


Instructor: Dr. Muhammad Ismail, Office: Bruner 333, Email: mismail@tntech.edu
Prerequisite: Design of Algorithms and CSC 3220

Course Project:
Students are required to work on a course project that applies machine learning and data mining techniques on a given problem. The students will provide their code and report on the problem. In addition, a presentation will be made in class by the students. Students are allowed to work in groups. The maximum group size is 3. The following tentative schedule should be respected:
Feb. 1st, 2023: Agreement on the topic of the research paper. A 1-page summary will be submitted to the course instructor including: title of the project, team members, description of the topic, objectives of the study, and description of the dataset
April 24th, 2023: Submission of the code and report in .ipynb format (on Google Colab) and presentation slides. The submission will include: Abstract: a summary of the report and main findings, Introduction: discussion of the problem in hand, any relevant solutions, datasets, limitations, Dataset: description and analysis (visualization) of the dataset used in the report, Methodology: description of the machine learning approaches adopted in the project, Results: performance evaluation results, comparisons, and discussions, Conclusion: main findings of the project.
April 24th and 26th, 2023: Presentation of the project (~ 8 minutes/team).

Late Policy:
No late submission is accepted.