---
title: Chapter 1
date: 2023.01.27
slug: q-1
category: Quiz 1 Outline
---

## DEVOPs: What is It

- a break from traditional silo-ed practices
- a culture of strong collaboration between Dev and Ops
- a set of practices aimed at improving time to market
- Should work in harmony with Agile practices
- Goal: Reducing the time between development of software and the deployment of software, while maintaining quality.

## DEVOPs: a few things to remember

- Some tasks in DevOps practices are shifted from IT to developers.
- DevOps can create new requirements, such as tooling support.
- The removal of oversight from deployments can create risk for organizations.
- Enabling DevOps practices often requires organizational change.
- Automation is not necessarily required to implement DevOps practices.
- Resource cost is important to DevOps practices

## DEVOPs: Potential blocks to DEVOPS

- Tool support
- Personnel Issues
- Organizational culture
- Type of organization or department

## DEVOPs: Collaboration

- Most important aspect of Devops practices
- DevOps consists of shared responsibility between developers and operations personnel for incident handling.
- consistent practices for both developers and operations personnel

## DEVOPs: Practices

- During release organizations care about:
- collaboration with customers and stakeholders
- packaging assets and service components
- tracking deployment packages
- Can include automation or IAC to provide consistent feedback and deployments.