---
title: lecture
date: 2023.02.24
slug: 2-1
category: Chapter 2. Operating System Overview
---


#### Operating System
An OS is a program that controls the execution of application programs and acts as an interface between applications and the computer hardware.


#### What are the main objectives of an OS?
Convenience, efficiency, ability to evolve


#### System Programs
Aka utilities/library programs.  
These implement frequently used functions that assist in program creation, the management of files, and the control of I/O devices.  
A programmer will make use of these facilities in developing an application, and the application, while it is running, will invoke the utilities to perform certain functions.


#### Operating System Services
Program Development, Program Execution, Access I/O devices, Controlled Access to files, System Access, Error detection and response


#### 3 Types of Interfaces
Instruction Set Architecture (ISA), Application Binary Interface (ABI), Application Programming Interface (API)


##### Instruction Set Architecture (ISA)
Defines a set of machine language instructions that a computer can follow. This is the boundary between hardware and software


###### Application Binary Interface (ABI)
Defines a standard for binary portability across programs. Defines the system call interface to the operating system and the hardware resources and services available in a system through the user ISA

##### Application Programming Interface (API)
Gives a program access to the hardware resources and services available in a system through the user ISA supplemented with high-level language library calls


#### An Operating System will evolve over time because/for...
Hardware upgrades, new types of hardware, new services, fixes


#### How did serial processing work on early computers?
Programmers interacted directly with the computer hardware.  
These computers were run from a console consisting of display lights, toggle switches, some form of input device, and a printer. Programs in machine code were loaded via the input device (e.g. a card reader).  
If an error halted the program, the error condition was indicated by the lights.  
If the program proceeded to a normal completion, the output appeared on the printer.


#### What were two problems with serial processing in early computers?
1. Scheduling -  
   People had to sign up to use a computer at a certain time, but their jobs might finish too early (causing downtime) or too late (resulting in the job having to be stopped).
2. Setup Time

#### Simple Batch System
Users submit a job on cards or tape to a computer operator, who batches the jobs together sequentially and places the entire batch on an input device for use by the monitor.  
After a job is finished, the monitor automatically begins loading the next program


#### Resident monitor
The portion of the monitor that is in main memory to be available for execution.


#### Monitor
controls the sequence of events in a Simple Batch System



#### "Control is passed to a job"
The processor is now fetching and executing instructions **in a user program**


#### "Control is returned to the monitor"
the processor is now fetching and executing instruction **from the monitor program**


#### Job Control Language (JCL)
A special type of programming language used to provide instructions to the monitor.


#### What are four desirable hardware features?
1. Memory protection for monitor (Prevents the user program from altering the memory area containing the monitor)
2. Timer (Prevents a job from monopolizing the system 
3. Privileged instructions (Can only be executed by the monitor. For example, I/O instructions) 
4. Interrupts (gives OS more flexibility in controlling user programs)

#### User Mode (of Operation)
Certain areas of memory are protected from the user's use and from instruction execution.


#### Kernel Mode (of Operation)
Also called system mode, privileged instructions may be executed and protected areas of memory may be accessed


#### Simple Batch System Overhead
1. Some main memory is given to the monitor
2. Some processor time is consumed by the monitor


#### Uniprogramming
The execution of a single program at a time.  
The processor spends a certain amount of time executing program A.  
It reaches an I/O instruction, and it must wait until it concludes before proceeding with program A.

#### Multiprogramming
The execution of multiple programs at a time.  
Multiple programs are loaded into memory, but only one of them runs at a time.  
If process A needs to wait for an I/O, process B can run in the meantime.  
This saves time, but requires more memory.


#### Time Sharing System
Multiple users can access the system at the same time through the terminals.  
The OS will interleave the execution of each user program in a short burst or quantum of computations.  
Each user will have access to 1/n of the effective computer capacity (where n is the number of users)


#### Batch Multiprogramming vs. Time Sharing
Batch Multiprogramming 
 - **maximize** **processor** use
 - uses **JCL** commands provided with the **job**.
  
Time Sharing
 - **minimize** response **time**  
 - uses **commands** entered at the **terminal**


#### Compatible Time-Sharing Systems
One of the first time-sharing OS's.  
Ran on a computer with 32,000 36-bit words of main memory.  
The Resident Monitor consumed 5,000 of that.  
For simplicity, programs were always loaded to start at the location of the 5,000th word.  
Used time slicing


#### Time Slicing
System clock generated interrupts every 0.2 seconds.  
At this point, the OS regained control and could assign the processor to another user.  
At regular time intervals, the current user would be preempted and another user loaded in.  
Old user programs and data were written out to disk and new user programs and data were read in.  
Old user programs and data were restored in main memory when that program was given a turn


#### Four major advances in the development of OS
Processes, Memory Management, Information Protection and security, Scheduling and Resource Management


#### What is a Process?
Simple definition - A program in execution.  
More complicated definition - A unit of activity characterized by a single sequential thread of execution, a current state, and an associated set of system resources

#### Real-Time Transaction Processing
Multiple users are entering queries or updates against a database. Ex - Airline Reservation systems


#### What are the 4 main causes of errors when running processes?
Improper Synchronization, Nondeterminate program operation, failed mutual exclusion, Deadlocks


#### Improper Synchronization
Routines are sometimes suspended until another event is completed. Improper design of the signaling mechanism can result in signals being lost or duplicated

#### Failed Mutual Exclusion
Can happen when two or more users or programs attempt to make use of a shared resource (Ex - A file) at a time. To prevent an error, there needs to be some sort of mutual exclusion mechanism that only lets one routine use the shared resource at a time.


#### Nondeterminate Program Operation
When programs share memory and their execution is interleaved by the processor, they could interfere with each other by overwriting common memory areas in unpredictable ways. Therefore, the order that programs are scheduled may affect the outcome of a particular program.


#### Deadlocks
Happens when two or more programs are waiting for each other to continue.


#### What are the 3 components of a process?
1. An executable program.
2. The associated data needed by the program (variables, work space, buffers, etc..)
3. The execution context/process state of the program


#### What is the Execution Context of a process?
The internal data that allows the OS to supervise and control the process.


#### What is included in the execution context?
Contents of various processor registers (i.e. program counter, data registers) and additional information needed by the OS (i.e. priority of the process, whether the process is waiting)

#### context
The entire state of the process at any instant is contained in its ___



#### What are the five principal storage management responsibilities?
Process isolation, automatic allocation and management, support of modular programming, protection and access control, long term storage


#### Process Isolation
The OS is responsible for preventing independent processes form interfering with each other's memory. This includes both data and instructions


#### Automatic Allocation and Management
The OS is responsible for dynamically allocating programs across the memory hierarchy as required and for managing the memory in use so that the programmer does not have to worry about memory limitations


#### Support of Modular Programming
Programmers should be able to define program modules and to create, destroy, or alter the size of modules dynamically


#### Protection and access control
The OS must allow portions of memory to be accessible in various ways by various users. In some cases, this means preventing programs from interacting with another program's memory. In other cases, it means allowing a program to share the memory space of another.


#### Long-Term Storage
Many application programs need to store information for extended periods of time after the computer has been powered down


#### Virtual Memory
A facility that allows programs to address memory from a logical point of view, without regard to the amount of main memory physically available


#### Paging
Paging Systems allow processes to be comprised of a number of fixed-size blocks called pages. A program references a word by means of a virtual address consisting of a page number and an offset within the page. This system provides a dynamic mapping between the virtual address used in the program and a real (physical) address in main memory


#### How is paging used in virtual memory?
Every page of a process is maintained on disk. When a process is executing, only some of its pages are in main memory. If a reference is made to a page that is not in main memory, the memory management hardware will detect this and arrange for the missing page to be loaded into main memory.


#### What are the four categories in security and protection of OS?
1. Availability (Protect the system against interruption)
2. Confidentiality (Assures the users cannot read data for which access is unauthorized)
3. Data Integrity (Protection of data from unauthorized modification)
4. Authenticity (Concerns the proper verification of the identity of users and the validity of messages or data)


#### What are three factors that resource allocation and scheduling policies must consider?
Fairness, Differential Responsiveness (Some processes should be executed first to free up memory), Efficiency


#### How are Queues used in multiprogramming?
The OS maintains several queues that contain lists of processes waiting to be run. Short term queues contain processes that are in main memory waiting to be run. Long term queues contain new jobs waiting to use the processor


#### What are the five main categories of OS design approaches?
Microkernel Architecture, Multithreading, Symmetric Multiprocessing, Distributed Operating Systems, Object-Oriented Design


#### Microkernel Architecture
Assigns only a few essential functions to the kernel. These include address spaces, interprocess communication (IPC), and basic scheduling.

#### implementation, flexibility, distributed
The microkernel approach simplifies ____, provides ____, and is well suited to a ____ environment



#### Multithreading
A technique in which a process is divided into threads that can run concurrently


#### Thread
A dispatchable unit of work. It includes a processor context and its own data area for a stack. Threads execute sequentially and are interruptible if the processor needs to turn to another thread


#### Process (in terms of Multithreading)
A collection of one or more threads and associated system resources.


#### independent, serialized
Multithreading is useful for applications that perform a number of ___ tasks that do not need to be ___


#### Symmetric Multiprocessing (SMP)
Refers to a computer architecture with multiple processors that share a common OS and memory. This allows multiple processes to run in parallel


#### What are the 4 advantages of SMP?
1. Performance (more than one process can run at a time)
2. Availability (Failure of a single process does not halt the system)
3. Incremental Growth (Additional processors can be added)
4. Scaling (vendors can offer different products based on the # of processors in the system)


#### multiprogramming, multiprocessing
With ___ only one process can execute at a time, but with ___ more than one process can run at a time



#### Distributed Operating System
Provides the illusion of a single main memory space, a single secondary memory space, and unified access facilities


#### Object-Oriented (OS) Design
Used for adding modular extensions to a small kernel. Enables programmers to customize an OS without disrupting system integrity. Eases the development of distributed tools and full-blown distributed OSs

