---
title: exam
date: 2023.02.24
slug: 2-2
category: Chapter 2. Operating System Overview
---

### Discuss the beautification principle (i.e. the operating system as a user/computer interface).

#### Operating System Services

- Program development
- Program execution
- Access I/O devices
- Controlled access to files
- System access
- Error detection and response
- Accounting

#### Describe the resource management principle (i.e. the operating system as an efficient resource manager).

#### What is the kernel?
- monitor executes in kernel mode
- privileged instructions may be executed
- protected areas of memory may be accessed

### Why do operating systems need to change over time?

hardware upgrades, new types of hardware, new services, fixes

#### What affect does this have on design?

Distributed Operating System, Object-Oriented Design

### Discuss how operating system have changed over the years.

Serial Processing &rightarrow; Simple Batch Systems &rightarrow; Multiprogrammed Batch Systems &rightarrow; Time Sharing Systems 

#### serial processing

**How did serial processing work on early computers?**
Programmers interacted directly with the computer hardware.  
These computers were run from a console consisting of display lights, toggle switches, some form of input device, and a printer.  
Programs in machine code were loaded via the input device (e.g. a card reader).  
If an error halted the program, the error condition was indicated by the lights.  
If the program proceeded to a normal completion, the output appeared on the printer.

#### What were two problems with serial processing in early computers?
1. Scheduling -  
   People had to sign up to use a computer at a certain time, but their jobs might finish too early (causing downtime) or too late (resulting in the job having to be stopped).
2. Setup Time

#### Simple Batch System
Users submit a job on cards or tape to a computer operator, who batches the jobs together sequentially and places the entire batch on an input device for use by the monitor.  
After a job is finished, the monitor automatically begins loading the next program


#### Resident monitor
The portion of the monitor that is in main memory to be available for execution.

- Monitor
    - controls the sequence of events in a Simple Batch System

- "Control is passed to a job"
    - The processor is now fetching and executing instructions **in a user program**


- "Control is returned to the monitor"
    - the processor is now fetching and executing instruction **from the monitor program**


#### Job Control Language (JCL)
A special type of programming language used to provide instructions to the monitor.

#### multiprogrammed batch systems

**Multiprogramming**
The execution of multiple programs at a time.  
Multiple programs are loaded into memory, but only one of them runs at a time.  
If process A needs to wait for an I/O, process B can run in the meantime.  
This saves time, but requires more memory.

#### how they were an improvement over simple batch systems in terms of efficiency

This saves timeand increase throughput, but requires more memory.

#### Time Sharing System
Multiple users can access the system at the same time through the terminals.  
The OS will interleave the execution of each user program in a short burst or quantum of computations.  
Each user will have access to 1/n of the effective computer capacity (where n is the number of users)


### Discuss the major achievements in operating systems

- processes
- memory management
- information protection and security
- scheduing and resources management
- system structure

#### In particularly, be able to describe processes and the problems they helped solve

##### What is a Process?
Simple definition - A program in execution.  
More complicated definition - A unit of activity characterized by a single sequential thread of execution, a current state, and an associated set of system resources


#### What is process state?


### Discuss achievements in memory management.

#### What are the five principal storage management responsibilities?
- Process isolation
- automatic allocation and management
- support of modular programming
- protection and access control
- long term storage

#### What is a real address? A virtual address?

##### Paging
Paging Systems allow processes to be comprised of a number of fixed-size blocks called pages. A program references a word by means of a virtual address consisting of a page number and an offset within the page. This system provides a dynamic mapping between the virtual address used in the program and a real (physical) address in main memory

#### Virtual Memory
A facility that allows programs to address memory from a logical point of view, without regard to the amount of main memory physically available


### Know that advances for operating systems have occurred in information protection and security

##### What are the four categories in security and protection of OS?
1. Availability (Protect the system against interruption)
2. Confidentiality (Assures the users cannot read data for which access is unauthorized)
3. Data Integrity (Protection of data from unauthorized modification)
4. Authenticity (Concerns the proper verification of the identity of users and the validity of messages or data)

#### Be able to discuss areas of availability, confidentiality, data integrity, and authenticity.


### Discuss achievements scheduling and resource management. 

##### What are three factors that resource allocation and scheduling policies must consider?
Fairness, Differential Responsiveness (Some processes should be executed first to free up memory), Efficiency

#### Discuss fairness, differential responsiveness, and efficiency.


### Discuss advances in system structure.

##### What are the five main categories of OS design approaches?
Microkernel Architecture, Multithreading, Symmetric Multiprocessing, Distributed Operating Systems, Object-Oriented Design

#### Describe a layered architecture.

#### Discuss the difference between a monolithic kernel and a microkernel.

#### Know the difference between a thread and a process.

##### Thread
A dispatchable unit of work. It includes a processor context and its own data area for a stack. Threads execute sequentially and are interruptible if the processor needs to turn to another thread


##### Process (in terms of Multithreading)
**A collection of one or more thread**s and associated system resources.


### See *Review Questions* 2.1 through 2.11. I could ask you to do problems from Section 2.13 *Problems* like 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 (8th edition)


Review Questions
2.1. What are three objectives of an OS design?
2.2. What is the kernel of an OS?
2.3. What is multiprogramming?
2.4. What is a process?
2.5. How is the execution context of a process used by the OS?
2.6. List and briefly explain five storage management responsibilities of a typical OS.
2.7. Explain the distinction between a real address and a virtual address.
2.8. Describe the round-robin scheduling technique.
2.9. Explain the difference between a monolithic kernel and a microkernel.
2.10. What is multithreading?
2.11. List the key design issues for an SMP operating system.


