---
title: Intro
date: exam 1
slug: 3-1
category: Chapter 3. Process description and control"
---


#### What are the components of a process? What is a PCB? What kinds of things are found in a PCB?


#### What is a dispatcher. Describe the interleaving of instructions in a multiprogramming OS. Describe the two state process model. What is the purpose of a ready queue?


#### Describe process creation and termination. Describe the five state process model. Describe the running, ready, blocked, new, and exit process states. Be able to describe the transitions that a process can make in the five state process model. Be able to describe the queuing model for the five state process model.


#### Describe the seven state process model. In particular, describe the ready/suspend and blocked/suspend state and why they are needed. Be able to describe the transitions that a process can make in the seven state process model.


#### Discuss the different type of control structures that the OS can use to manage processes and resources (memory tables, I/O tables, file tables, and process tables).


#### What is the process image? Be familiar with the elements of a PCB as shown on page 130. Know about the EFLAGS register of the i386 family of processors (but you don't have to know the individual flags).


#### Understand the different modes of execution: user mode and kernel mode.


#### Understand the steps of process creation. Discuss when process switching can occur (clock interrupt, I/O interrupt, memory fault, supervisor call, trap).


#### Make sure that you understand the steps that occur during process switching.


#### Describe what happens during process switching. Be able to answer the question "Is the operating system a process?" and discuss the issues involved. See the *Review Questions* 3.1 through 3.14. I could ask you to do problems like: 3.1, 3.3, 3.4, 3.10. (8th edition)